I am Samantha Bee,
welcome to "Full Frontal."
[CHEERING]
Thank you so much,
oh my goodness.
Please.
Woo!
This week, the
federal government
got drunk on dysfunction,
passed out, and had
a three day lost weekend.
Oh man, you should see
how many federal employees
I almost fucked.
And after the biggest
political crisis in days,
politicians had one
important question--
whose fault was it?
Good morning, and welcome
to the Trump shutdown.
We are now engaged
in a Schumer shutdown.
This is the Trump shutdown.
My favorite is still
the Schumer shutdown.
Why do women get
blamed for everything?
This shutdown passed
quickly, but it
only gets worse from here.
A much uglier fight
over immigration
is gonna play out
in the coming weeks.
Why has governing
ground to a halt
over protections for dreamers
that 86% of Americans support?
Believe it or not, the
answer isn't entirely Trump.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
POTUS, seen here
asking Drew Barrymore
if she likes scary movies,
hates him some immigrants,
but his specific
policy proposals are as
empty as his Oval Office desk.
Those come from
his senior policy
advisor, and political smallpox
blanket, Stephen Miller.
You know, the guy who negged
the Statue of Liberty?
The Statue of Liberty
says, "Give me your tired,
your poor, your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free."
It doesn't say
anything about speaking
English, or being able to
be a computer programmer.
The poem that you're
referring to was added later.
It's not actually part of the
original Statue of Liberty.
Oh, you should be
nice to Lady Liberty.
She's the only woman who
will ever let you inside her.
So, what's the problem
with Stephen Miller,
besides the fact that
his skull looks like it's
trying to escape his head?
I'm glad you asked.
DACA isn't just some
bleeding heart liberal idea.
A lot of conservatives
want to help dreamers too.
In fact, Lindsey Graham
and Dick Durbin spearheaded
a immigration compromise.
Trump had his Sharpie
poised to sign up.
But when they got to the
White House to talk about it,
there was a surprise
meeting for them.
An aide to Dick Durbin said,
Senator Graham and Durbin
expected to have a meeting.
They showed up, and there's
this, quote, "anti-immigrant
cast of characters there.
And that was obviously
designed by Stephen Miller
to try to kill the deal."
As long as Stephen
Miller is in charge
of negotiating immigration,
we're going nowhere.
He's been a outlier for years.
Now if you'll
excuse me, I'm falling
behind my speed walking group.
Wait up for me, Connie!
That's right, this
isn't the Trump
shutdown or Schumer shutdown.
It's the Stephen
Miller shutdown.
Miller is Trump's
immigration guy.
And in the Trump White House,
that is a powerful position.
It's like the same
level of power
as the guy who was Bill
Clinton's trim coordinator.
So who is this enterprising
slime mold on the Wonder
Bread of democracy?
Where did he come from?
Is he just 10,000 spiders
who really made a commitment?
Steven Miller was born
in sunny California,
where I assume his first
words were s-s-sick burns.
As early as middle
school, Miller reportedly
broke off a childhood friendship
because the friend was Latino.
Wow.
Even I wouldn't have hung out
with Stephen Miller in school,
and I was desperate
for new members
of my Anne-Marie fan club.
By high school,
Miller was a practiced
right-wing provocateur,
appearing on conservative talk
radio and running
for class president
on a platform of
"screw janitors."
What happened to him?
Did a janitor once
accidentally buff his forehead?
Miller also wrote a very chill
op-ed for his high school
paper, called "A
Time to Kill," which
scolded his fellow students for
believing that Islam could be
peaceful, telling them,
"Millions of radical muslims
would celebrate your death."
[LAUGHS] Reminds me of
my 10th grade essay,
"Millions of radical
Muslims would celebrate
me joining Bananarama."
I was so confident of what
Muslims thought of me.
After high school, Miller
fled liberal California
for Duke University,
presumably because he thought
it was founded by David.
There he was, captain of Duke's
competitive balding team,
and found his niche at the
college newspaper, where he had
a regular column in which
he railed against feminism,
multiculturalism, immigration,
liberal professors, the war
on Christmas, and,
once again, janitors.
He published a screed
against giving the dorm
janitor a birthday card.
OK, you know what, buddy?
I'm getting the
feeling that you think
janitors are an ethnic group.
They didn't all float here in
a dinghy from Janitoruguay.
Miller's right-wing
media fame helped
propel him to the office door of
Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions.
As a Sessions
staffer, Miller was
instrumental in helping to
kill the 2014 immigration bill.
Then in January 2016,
Trump hired Miller and made
him his opener at rallies,
where he'd do a tight 17
minutes on how every Hispanic
immigrant is going to steal
your job and kill your
daughter, and every Muslim
is a terrorist.
We're gonna build
that wall so our kids
don't have to worry anymore
about unsafe communities.
How many children
are dead because
of our sanctuary cities?
How many moms are
grieving because
of our sanctuary cities?
We've seen example after
example, in the Somali refugee
program, of individuals
becoming radicalized
and joining terrorist groups.
They say he's too
tough on crime.
And he's too tough on
illegal immigration,
and he's too tough on
radical Islamist refugees.
Congrats to Stephen
Miller for being
the first person in history
ever to utter the phrase
radical Islamist refugees.
And congrats to me for being
the first person in history
to die of douche chills.
After their act did
so well on the road,
Trump brought Miller
to the White House
as his senior policy advisor
and Secretary of foreheads,
where he's been intimately
involved in crafting Trump's
scariest messages and
creepiest positions--
from the attempted
Muslim ban to the refusal
to reauthorize DACA.
Stephen Miller is a real
American success story.
He worked hard, and
stayed true to himself,
and achieved his dreams.
He is the exact
same racist asshole
he's been since
childhood, but now he
has the president's ear
and the power to ruin
thousands of people's lives.
I really have a bone to
pick with the guy who wrote
"never change" in his yearbook.
Schumer and McConnell
better figure out
a way to separate
him from Trump,
before they're asked
to pass the janitor
immigration bill of 2018.
We'll be right back.